attaching our fly to our leader two of
the most commonly
Knots for attaching our flight to our
leader are the clinch knot and the
improved clinch we're going to show both
of them here in this segment of the
video as fly-fishermen her goal is to
have her fly attached to our leader we
want to tie a secure knot that won't
come undone while we're casting our fly
in the workshops when we're teaching
students how to tie knots it's a lot
easier to start off with something
really big so one of the most difficult
parts about learning a new knot is the
finger dexterity and getting the wraps
and everything together first start off
by inserting the leader and into the eye
of the fly grasping your fly with your
thumb and index finger hold it securely
and pull the leader through the eye
giving yourself about three or four
inches as you get better and better at
this that distance will get shorter and
shorter one of the goals we want to do
here is thumb and index finger we want
to keep this opening right here the
reason we want to pinch this off right
here is because we're going to wrap the
tag end this being the tag this being
the standing line around we're going to
wrap the tag around the standing line I
also find it a lot easier if I hold the
standing line in the palm of my hand
keeping this section right here fairly
tight okay
thumb index finger just reach around
grab the tag wrap forward
now for the demonstration here and
because I'm using such a white a big
piece of rope
I'll only wrap around three times the
tag in once we have it wrapped around
three or four times we want to put
through this opening right here that's
why we want to keep it open with our
thumb and index finger thumb and index
finger now grabs the tag the palm of
your hand on the standing line don't
pull the tag too hard but hold your fly
and just hold the tag end and pull
opposing Lee as the knot comes together
you can release the tag grab your fly
securely you don't want that fly getting
buried into your thumb or finger
standing line fly pull the knot tight
notice how this tag right here is
wanting to go through the loop right
there you see it getting ready to back
out through there just grab it and hang
on to a little bit your knot will come
and slide together the clinch knot now
just clip off this portion of the tag
with your nippers now I like to leave on
a fresh new knot I like to leave about a
sixteenth of an inch or so that way if
the knot does have a tendency to tighten
up while you're casting this tag won't
slip back through this loop right here
thus having your not fail the clinch
knot
the improved clinch knot is exactly like
the clinch knot with one exception just
as before we want to run our leader
through the eye of our fly giving us
about three to four inches thumb index
finger holds the fly securely keeping
the to the standing line and the tag
lines separated putting the standing
line in the palm of your hand holding it
types of this standing line keeps keep
straight reach under thumb index finger
grab the tag wrap around the tag wrap it
around tag wrap around now again because
we're using such thick material here
we're only going to wrap around three
times this tag now goes through the
opening that we've kept open with our
thumb and index finger
there's our clinch knot now notice this
loop right here that we have once the
tag end goes through our first loop
right here simply to improve the knot
just push it over and back through that
loop opening once you're here grab the
tag end helps me if I switch hands now
and draw the knot together once you're
not starts to come up towards the eye of
the fly drop the tag end hanging on to
the fly securely so it doesn't embed
itself in your finger or thumb pull the
standing line and the fly opposing each
other the knot comes together
one of the reasons I like this knot is
because if I hook into a big trophy
trout in my and I and the tag end if it
has worked its way through the second
loop right here that means that it has
to go through the first loop that we
went through so basically it's just a
safety net for my knot trim the tag off
again I like to leave about a sixteenth
of an inch as I fly as I cast the fly it
might tighten up a little bit more the
clinch knot